README.md, before:

# File Generator - Excel to PDF

A simple GUI application that generates PDF files from Excel data using Word templates.

## Features

- **Tabbed Interface**: Separate tabs for "Cargos" and "Stock" functionality
- **Excel File Loading**: Load and preview Excel files with data validation
- **Template Management**: Use Word document templates for file generation
- **Configurable Paths**: Set default paths for templates and output files
- **Logging**: Built-in logging system with error handling
- **Standalone Executable**: Package as a single .exe file

## Setup and Installation

### Requirements
- Python 3.7+
- Windows OS (for .exe packaging)

### Quick Start

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Run the Application**:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

3. **Build Executable**:
   ```bash
   # Run the build script
   build.bat
   
   # Or manually with PyInstaller
   pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name="FileGenerator" --add-data "templates;templates" main.py
   ```

## Usage

### Cargos Tab
1. **Select Excel File**: Browse and load your Excel file containing the data
2. **Set Templates Path**: Point to the folder containing Word document templates
3. **Set Destination Path**: Choose where generated files will be saved
4. **Load Excel**: Preview the Excel data in the application
5. **Generate Files**: Process the data and create PDF files (logic TBD)

### File Structure
```
cargos/
├── main.py              # Main application file
├── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── build.bat           # Build script for executable
├── templates/          # Word document templates
│   ├── CARGO UNIFORMES.docx
│   └── 50% - AUTORIZACIÓN DESCUENTO DE UNIFORMES (02).docx
├── sources/            # Sample Excel files
│   └── REQUERIMIENTO DE UNIFORMES nuevo.xlsx
└── output/            # Generated files destination
```

## Architecture

The application follows clean architecture principles with clear separation of concerns:

### **Core Components**
- **`main.py`**: Application controller and entry point
- **`models.py`**: Data models and configuration classes
- **`services.py`**: Business logic services (Excel processing, file generation)
- **`ui_components.py`**: UI components and widgets

### **Design Principles**
- **Separation of Concerns**: Each class has a single responsibility
- **Dependency Injection**: Services are injected into controllers
- **Type Safety**: Full type hints for better maintainability
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive exception handling at all levels
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new tabs and functionality

### **Class Structure**
```
FileGeneratorApp (Controller)
├── ConfigService (Configuration management)
├── ExcelService (Excel file operations)
├── FileGenerationService (File generation logic)
└── CargosTab (UI Components)
    ├── FileSelectionFrame
    ├── ControlFrame
    ├── DataPreviewFrame
    └── LogFrame
```

### Next Steps
- Implement Excel parsing logic based on your data structure
- Add Word document template processing
- Implement PDF generation functionality
- Add Stock tab functionality

## Building for Distribution

The application can be packaged as a standalone executable using PyInstaller:

```bash
pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name="FileGenerator" --add-data "templates;templates" main.py
```

This creates a single .exe file that includes all dependencies and can run on any Windows machine without Python installed.

Commit message:

Enhance Excel processing and validation features. Updated build script to include hidden imports. Improved UI layout for file selection and data preview. Added comprehensive validation for Excel data with detailed error reporting. Implemented persistent configuration for template paths. Refactored data models and services for better clarity and functionality.

README.md, after:

# File Generator - Excel to PDF

A simple GUI application that generates PDF files from Excel data using Word templates.

## Features

- **Tabbed Interface**: Separate tabs for "Cargos" and "Stock" functionality
- **Excel File Loading**: Load and preview Excel files with data validation
- **Template Management**: Use Word document templates for file generation
- **Configurable Paths**: Set default paths for templates and output files
- **Logging**: Built-in logging system with error handling
- **Standalone Executable**: Package as a single .exe file

## Setup and Installation

### Requirements
- Python 3.7+
- Windows OS (for .exe packaging)

### Quick Start

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Run the Application**:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

3. **Build Executable**:
   ```bash
   # Run the build script
   build.bat
   
   # Or manually with PyInstaller
   pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name="FileGenerator" --add-data "templates;templates" main.py
   ```

## Usage

### Cargos Tab
1. **Select Excel File**: Browse and load your Excel file containing the data
2. **Set CARGO Template**: Select the CARGO UNIFORMES Word document template
3. **Set AUTORIZACION Template**: Select the AUTORIZACION DESCUENTO Word document template
4. **Set Destination Folder**: Choose where generated files will be saved (creates subfolders automatically)
5. **Load Excel**: Preview and validate the Excel data in the application
6. **Generate Files**: Process the data and create PDF files (logic TBD)

### Key Features
- **Persistent Configuration**: Template paths and settings are automatically saved
- **Excel Validation**: Comprehensive validation with detailed error reporting
- **UI-Only Interaction**: All errors and messages are shown in the GUI (no terminal windows)
- **Automatic Folder Creation**: Destination folder and subfolders are created automatically

### File Structure
```
cargos/
├── main.py                    # Application controller and entry point
├── models.py                  # Data models and configuration
├── services.py                # Business logic services
├── ui_components.py           # UI components and widgets
├── config_manager.py          # Configuration persistence
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
├── build.bat                 # Build script for executable
├── config.json               # Persistent configuration (auto-generated)
├── templates/                # Word document templates
│   ├── CARGO UNIFORMES.docx
│   └── 50% - AUTORIZACIÓN DESCUENTO DE UNIFORMES (02).docx
├── sources/                  # Sample Excel files
│   └── REQUERIMIENTO DE UNIFORMES nuevo.xlsx
└── output/                   # Generated files destination
```

## Architecture

The application follows clean architecture principles with clear separation of concerns:

### **Core Components**
- **`main.py`**: Application controller and entry point
- **`models.py`**: Data models and configuration classes
- **`services.py`**: Business logic services (Excel processing, file generation)
- **`ui_components.py`**: UI components and widgets

### **Design Principles**
- **Separation of Concerns**: Each class has a single responsibility
- **Dependency Injection**: Services are injected into controllers
- **Type Safety**: Full type hints for better maintainability
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive exception handling at all levels
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new tabs and functionality

### **Class Structure**
```
FileGeneratorApp (Controller)
├── ConfigService (Configuration management)
├── ExcelService (Excel file operations)
├── FileGenerationService (File generation logic)
└── CargosTab (UI Components)
    ├── FileSelectionFrame
    ├── ControlFrame
    ├── DataPreviewFrame
    └── LogFrame
```

### Next Steps
- Implement Excel parsing logic based on your data structure
- Add Word document template processing
- Implement PDF generation functionality
- Add Stock tab functionality

## Building for Distribution

The application can be packaged as a standalone executable using PyInstaller:

```bash
pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name="FileGenerator" --add-data "templates;templates" main.py
```

This creates a single .exe file that includes all dependencies and can run on any Windows machine without Python installed.
